Israel says it is not expecting any
hostages to be released by Hamas before
Friday officials say the exchange has
been postponed so that further details
can be ironed out an agreed pause in
hostilities in Gaza is also on hold with
heavy fighting continuing across the
strip meanwhile Israel's Israel's
military rather is yet to confirm
reports that the director of gaza's
biggest hospital has been arrested along
with a number of other medical
staff we'll go to our correspondent in
Jerusalem in just a minute but first
let's speak to Lieutenant Colonel Peter
lner he's a spokesperson for the Israeli
military the IDF welcome to you uh can
you start by confirming that Israeli
troops have arrested the director of the
alifa hospital and several other
doctors thank you I have uh heard this
news this morning I can't confirm it
officially I'm still waiting from a an
update from the field in order to
understand exactly if that has happened
and under what what circumstances but
after our Revelations yesterday and over
the last recent days of the extent of
hamas's tunnel Network beneath uh the
shifa hospital I think it's only logical
that he should be questioned to ask how
did this
happen do you know what they are accused
of as I said I can't confirm it I'm
still waiting for confirmation from the
field I'm just speaking logically what
you know that needs to be some questions
asked after he denied it extensively and
what we revealed yesterday I'm sure DW
is showing the extensive footage of the
extent of the terrorist tunnels that
exist beneath shaer hospital um and used
by Hamas so I think we we need some
questions he is the manager of the
hospital he should be able to answer
those so we can say clearly that you are
claiming that hospital staff knew about
the extent of the network and concealed
it from the
public no that's not what I said I said
that it there's a reality on the ground
that we've revealed extensively uh
covered extensively by the world media
showing the huge amount of network of
tunnels that exist beneath the shifa
hospital um he should definitely be
questioned in order to answer what
exactly he knew and what he didn't know
and that there's not I'm not saying that
he's been charged I'm not saying that
he's been arrested as I said before
we're still waiting for that
confirmation from the field but just
logically it makes sense you know that
he answers some
questions as we're looking at IDF
pictures Peter another major Hospital in
Northern Gaza the Indonesian Hospital
says it has received a warning from
Israeli troops to evacuate immediately
will Israeli troops enter this Hospital
next so I won't comment specifically on
immediate operations that are happening
but yes indeed we have seen throughout
the last month the extent of hamas's
concept of operations to embed itself
beneath in and around hospitals this is
the challenge that Hamas have chosen to
intentionally locate themselves in these
places putting the people in the
hospitals at risk so if we are calling
uh people to evacuate from specific
locations it is in order to get them out
of Harm's Way if we've learned anything
from the incidents around shifa that
when we are instructing people to
evacuate the hospitals they should
listen the World Health Organization and
other un institutions have repeatedly
called for medical personnel to be
protected in this war as in any other
conflict are you at this point
interested in what the who
says I'm interested in hearing the who
condemn hamas's use of hospitals the
extent of the the tunnels and we've not
heard one word from them about this this
is what really concerns us it it it it
makes them actually complicit in hamas's
abuse and action against uh the
humanitarian Mission against medical
staff and the presence of the medical uh
uh patients themselves so I would say
the wh have to be part of the solution
not part of the problem and By ignoring
hamas's involvement in this by ignoring
hamas's entrenchment beneath hospitals
By ignoring the abuse that Hamas has
clearly um uh created around hospitals
and Hospital staff at they are not being
a contributing party to solving this
issue um when we are engaging with the
who that is what we expect a very clear
message that not about only the
protection of medical staff because that
is what we're doing or the the patients
themselves when we're asking to evacuate
hospitals but also the abuse by Hamas of
this of the medical infrastructure that
should be at the the top of their
concerns that should be the most
worrying thing that the who have because
it has been systematic a concept of
operations that Hamas have intentionally
laid out the foundations of all of their
Subterranean activities this needs to
concern not only the who but the world
of completely all of us we need to be
concerned about how this terrorist
organization has manipulated the
situation into such a devastating
reality Peter larner spokesperson for
the Israeli military thank
you good
day we can now speak to marinaa Miron
she's a military Analyst at King's
College London Marina are there any
signs at this point the isra military
have started to move back from positions
inside of Gaza or or does it appear that
they are keeping the pressure on Hamas
as the clock ticks down to an expected
truce good day Anthony well at this
point it seems like the operation is
still in full swing because um as we
have heard the exchange of hostages will
be postponed at least until tomorrow
therefore the military operation is
continuing as before and as a matter of
fact According to some reports uh we
have seen some of the fiercest fighting
going on right
now the Israelis are previously rejected
calls for for a truce Marina claiming it
would benefit Hamas what can Hamas
really do inside of four days is that
going to be enough for them when they're
backed into the corner that they are now
can they exploit at truce in any way to
their own
Advantage well it seems like Hamas has
taken the hostages knowing exactly that
will be attempts to rescue these
hostages and the best chances of getting
these people alive is by initiating a
ceasefire and um Israel has promised to
extend the ceasefire by 24 hours for
each additional 10 hostages released so
we have to do the math here if Hamas
releases 50 hostages now they still have
some 200 hostages that they can use to
bar for time and to to get more time in
order to regroup and recover and 4 days
might seem like little time however from
a military perspective at the Tactical
level the clock is taking much faster
and that might just be enough time for
Hamas to relocate to regroup and recover
to get new supplies in and whatever they
need in order to strengthen their
position therefore um even four days can
benefit Hamas and conversely for the
Israeli military now the campaign has
been highly kinetic uh stopping for 4
days might risk losing the
momentum do we know how much is left of
Hamas militarily at this
point I don't think that uh we have a
very clear estimate we have seen reports
that some high level military commanders
have been eliminated however it's very
difficult to say how many fighters are
left um that being said we also have to
bear in mind that because because of the
ongoing campaign and because of its
brutality it might push people to join
Hamas Hamas is doing uh a very good job
of um using the fact that Israel is
responding with so much force in order
to attract more supporters for its cause
therefore it seems like for uh a few
Hamas Fighters that Israel eliminates
there will be 10 or 20 more joining the
cause so it it it it is a very difficult
situation and any estimates at this
stage might might not reveal the the the
real picture of what is happening Marina
from a a military point of view how
complex is the exchange of hostages and
prisoners well it is complex from the
perspectives that you have to pause your
operations keeping your troops in those
positions and you all also have to
understand that there is not as much
trust as one might think even if other
countries are mediating this prisoner
exchange uh and hostages exchange so
therefore for the military they're still
waiting there and thinking that Hamas
might break the ceasefire any minute so
they have to be ready for the threat on
the one hand on the other hand is how
long does the ceasefire last will Israel
extend the ceasefire and will the
military have to redo what it's been
doing in order to regain the momentum
how will the military operation look
after that after Hamas had had the time
um to relocate the other aspect of this
is of course releasing 50 hostages means
that uh there is less risk or one would
assume there is less risks that uh
whatever um military action is taken
that the hostages might be harmed
however we're still talking about 20 100
plus people um being held by Hamas so if
all hostages were released it would
certainly make the military operation
easier for Israel but it is not the case
Marina Miron military Analyst at King's
College London thank
you thank you for having
me well our have reporter Muhammad khut
has been near the NASA Hospital in canun
asking people what they thought of the
deal the four-day pause is simply not
off we want something longterm we want
stability we can't be in a state of
rushing away with our belongings living
our homes and being constantly running
we are tired we are tired we want a
permanent ceire we don't want a war we
don't want anything else we just want to
stay in our homes even if we have to eat
sunand we can't bear this misery any
longer it's too much I need to see a
psychologist because of this it's an
absolute Injustice our children are
displaced our entire lives displaced is
this acceptable who is listening to us
to the UN I say have mercy on what we
are going through e enough we are fed
up in my opinion the 4day pause is not
enough we want a permanent truth we are
fed up of Wars we are exhausted can't be
at War forever no one could ever imagine
what we are going through it's extremely
difficult 4 days are not enough to those
who negotiated the pause what's for days
we going into the second month of the
war it's not enough we want a permanent
end to all
this we are not happy with this ceas
fire we want a longer more permanent one
we don't want to hear bombing or
Screaming we don't want to hear we have
lost a child I have lost my husband we
don't like this ceas fire we want all
people in the north to go back and find
stability we don't want to live in fear
it's enough we want to to go home enough
everyone should be able to look after
his business to get back to their
lives to Jerusalem now and our special
correspondent there a Ibrahim a the
hostage release is now not expected to
begin before Friday why the
delay we heard from a a White House
spokesperson that the final details are
still being ironed out so it does here
that this is due to uh some logistical
uh uh challenges um this uh delay of
course this delay comes as a huge
disappointment to the families of the
hostages who have been in agony for over
a month over their loved ones and for
Israeli society as a whole at the same
time we were we've been told by
officials and experts ever since this um
hostage came into play that there are a
lot of moving parts and it's not over
until until it's really over even when
the deal hopefully starts being
implemented we won't see all of the
hostages coming home all 50 hostages
coming home at the same time they will
be released in batches over a number of
days and even then even when once we
reach that process hopefully there could
still be disruptions so U everyone's
holding their uh breaths here in Israel
but they also know that you know we're
by no means um you know this by no means
over how important is this deal what's
at stake here for both Israeli
government and
Hamas the deal is crucial for the
Israeli government which has come under
huge pressure over the past uh six weeks
or so for its perceived in action to
bring back the hostages to their
families we saw protests just uh over
the weekend we saw a huge March
thousands who walked from Tel Aviv to
Jerusalem uh to call on their government
to do more to bring the hostages back
and so this really uh the Israeli
government really needs this to to to to
calm down uh the people who are just
absolutely infuriated at how long it has
taken to bring back the hostages for
Hamas this could be an opportunity to
regroup and recalibrate that certainly
the criticism that's been mounted
against this uh host hostage deal by
some right-wing members of the
government a small minority but a very
vocal minority nonetheless there're also
the people of Gaza who really stand to
benefit from the ceasefire after you
know we're now in the second month of
non-stop bombardment the humanitarian
situation is by all accounts
catastrophic and with the ceasefire
there will also be more Aid flowing into
the strip much needed aid for the
civilians in Gaza Aya what if anything
do we know about the people involved in
this
exchange well the 50th Israeli hostages
um men pardon women and children are
going to be released we don't have their
their their names yet which is of course
causing a lot of anticipation and
anxiety among hostages uh their families
here in in Israel part of the deal will
also be the release of
150 Palestinians in Israeli prisons uh
Israel has said it will not be releasing
any convicted murderers as part of this
exchange deal uh but uh there will be
people that have you know minor offenses
like arson uh or uh throwing rocks um or
U you know attacking a policeman not
quite you know these are still violent
crimes but not but no murderers will be
released we know that the majority of
the Palestinians that will be released
are between the ages of 16 and 18 so
these are still cons considered children
according to the
UN the special correspondent a Ibraham
in Jerusalem thank
you I'm joined Now by Salim ofis a
Communications officer from unicef's
Middle East office uh Sim welcome as we
just heard the people in Gaza T they're
tired and they do not think a truce of 4
days will be enough what do you think
will eight organizations realistically
be able to achieve anything meaningful
in such a short period of
time well yeah for sure we wel come uh
the announcement of this of this pause
but definitely it's not enough we're
talking about getting eight into Gaza
for over 1.6 million uh displaced people
uh plus all those who are still in their
in their uh original homes this
operation is is huge and 4 days of of
RIS pite is good but it's not enough to
deliver uh what is needed it's not
enough to deliver even within uh the
Gaza Strip because we know we know that
uh the most important part maybe for at
least for uh us as humanitarians is to
get the aid from the border to the
different places in the gust strip and
it's really it's going to be a a huge
challenge in the coming days to to do
that and to reach every child and every
family but what we need is as as we've
been advocating for so long and calling
for uh a ceasefire that's more permanent
that's more uh uh uh structured and we
can deliver more Aid uh inside of Gaza
soim just logistically of all the aid
you have waiting to get into Gaza does
this pause in the fighting mean you can
just get everything that you have
waiting at the border quickly and
efficiently into Gaza and distributed to
those who need
it so as I said it's not enough to get
uh everything that's needed but uh of
course we're planning to get as much as
possible inside uh UNICEF is planning to
get uh 30 trucks a day uh if this choose
actually or pose uh actually takes place
um 10 of which would be for water and
we're planning to get uh over 7 million
liters of water during during this
period uh we are focusing our efforts on
uh the main uh really the Necessities
water medicine uh um hygiene kits but
also now winter is uh is already here uh
in in this region and uh we're going to
try to uh prioritize blankets warm
clothes uh all that can um help people
during this tough
time after weeks of bombardment and
street fighting how much of a challenge
is it going to be simply moving these
big trucks around inside the
territory well it's it's been a
challenge especially with the lack of of
fuel and uh uh We've we've seen other un
agencies um declaring that it's really
uh impossible to move around and that
has been the case for Unicef as well and
uh for all humanitarians especially with
um the lack of guarantees of safety our
colleagues on the ground they are really
uh challenged uh with their families to
be safe uh with access to food and water
so it's it's been really challenging to
get around and get the aid around so
that's why aose is really good that we
can move but uh that's why we need a um
a real humanitarian ceasefire to to be
able to move and to deliver Aid and we
need this guarantee of safety of not
only the supplies but humanitarians as
well SIM obis from unicef's Middle East
office thank you so
much